1 


Lolita, light of my life, fire of my loins. My sin, my sonL 
Lo-lee-ta: the tip of the tongue taking a trip of three steps 
down the palate to tap, at three, on the teeth. Lo. Lee, Ta. 

She was Lo, plain Lo, in the morning, standing four feet 
ten in one sock. She was Lola in slacks. She was Dolly at 
school. She was Dolores on the dotted line. But in my aims 
she was always Lolita. 

Did she have a precursor? She did, indeed she did. In point 
of fact, there might have been no Lolita at all had I not loved, 
one summer, a certain initial girl-child. In a princedom by the 
sea. Oh when? About as many years before Lolita was bom as 
my age was that summer. You can always count on a murderer 
for a fancy prose style. 

Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, exhibit number one is 
what the seraphs, the misinformed, simple, noble-winged 
seraphs, envied. Look at this tangle of thorns. 

II 



2 


I was born in 1910, in Paris. My father was a gentle, easy-go- 
ing person, a salad of racial genes: a Swiss citizen, of mixed 
French and Austrian descent, with a dash of the Danube in his 
veins. I am going to pass around in a minute some lovely, 
glossy-blue picture-postcards. He owned a luxurious hotel on 
the Riviera. His father and two grandfathers had sold wine, 
jewels and silk, respectively. At thirty he married an' English 
girl, daughter of Jerome Dunn, the alpinist, and granddaughter 
of two Dorset parsons, experts in obscure subjects — paleo- 
pedology and Aeolian harps, respectively. My very photogenic 
mother died in a freak accident (picnic, lightning) when I was 
three, and, save for a pocket or warmth in the darkest past, 
nothing of her subsists within the hollows and dells of mem- 
ory, over which, if you can still stand my style (I am writing 
under observation), the sun of my infancy had set: surely, you 
all know those redolent remnants of day suspended, with the 
midges, about some hedge in bloom or suddenly entered and 
traversed by the rambler, at the bottom of a hill, in the sum- 
mer dusk; a furry warmth, golden midges. 

My mother’s elder sister, Sybil, whom a cousin of my fa- 
ther’s had married and then neglected, served in my immediate 
family as a kind of unpaid governess and housekeeper. Some- 
body told me later that she had been in love with my father, 
and that he had lightheartedly taken advantage of it one rainy 
day and forgotten it by the time the weather cleared. I was 
extremely fond of her, despite the rigidity — the fatal rigidity — 
of some of her rules. Perhaps she wanted to make of me, in the 
fullness of time, a better widower than my father. Aunt Sybil 
had pink-rimmed azure eyes and a waxen complexion. She 
wrote poetry. She was poetically superstitious. She said she 
knew she would die soon afteT my sixteenth birthday, and did. 
Her husband, a great traveler in perfumes, spent most of his 
time in America, where eventually he founded a firm and ac- 
quired a bit of real estate. 

I grew, a happy, healthy child in a bright world of illustrated 
books, clean sand, orange trees, friendly dogs, sea vistas and 
smiling faces. Around me the splendid Hotel Mirana revolved 
as a kind of private universe, a whitewashed cosmos within the 

12 


blue greater one that blazed outside. From the aproned pot- 
scrubber to the flanneled potentate, everybody liked me, every- 
body petted me. Elderly American ladies leaning on their 
canes listed toward me like towers of Pisa. Ruined Russian 
princesses who could not pay my father, bought me expensive 
bonbons. He,_mon cher petit papa, took me out boating and 
biking, taught me to swim and dive and water-ski, read to me 
Don Quixote and Les Mis6rables, and 1 adored and respected 
him and felt glad for him whenever I overheard the servants 
discuss his various lady-friends, beautiful and kind beings who 
made much of me and cooed and shed precious tears over my 
cheerful motherlessness. 

I attended an English day school a few miles from home, 
and there I played rackets and fives, and got excellent marks, 
and was on perfect terms with schoolmates and teachers alike. 
The only definite sexual events that I can remember as having 
occurred before my thirteenth birthday (that is, before I first 
saw my little Annabel) were: a solemn, decorous and purely 
theoretical talk about pubertal surprises in the rose garden of 
the school with an American kid, the son of a then celebrated 
motion-picture actress whom he seldom saw in the three- 
dimensional world; and some interesting reactions on the part 
. of my organism to certain photographs, pearl and umbra, with 
infinitely soft partings, in Piehon’s sumptuous La Beau td 
Humaine that I had filched from under a mountain of marble- 
bound Graphics in the hotel library. Later, in his delightful 
debonair manner, my father gave me all the information he 
thought I needed about sex; this was just before sending me, in 
the autumn of 1923, to a-lycSe in Lyon (where we were to 
spend three winters); but alas, in tire summer of that year, 
he was touring Italy with Mme de R. and her daughter, and I 
had nobody to complain to, nobody to consult.